Getting Familiar with MSF Syntax
The Metasploit Framework includes several
thousand modules, divided into categories.
The categories are displayed
on the splash screen summary
but we can also view
them with show -h.
To activate a module, enter “use”
followed by the module name.
This will activate the module and change
the prompt to indicate the active module.
We can use “back” to move
out of the current context
and return to the main prompt:
A variation of “back” is “previous”,
which will switch us to the
previously selected module
instead of the main prompt:
Most modules require options
before they can be run.
We can view these options
with “show options”.
We can configure these options
with “set” and “unset”
The only option that does not have
a value set by default is RHOSTS,
which is the remote host
IP address of the target.
To perform a scan of our Windows
workstation with the tcp portscan module,
we must first set
the RHOSTS option
with the remote host IP address
using the set command.
With the module
configured, we can run it.
The TCP scanner module found a
number of listening ports on our target.